Now, right now,
this is not really great problems.
I feel whenever I see these,
it doesn't hit home.
So we wanna take it up one more level.
We're gonna do the maximum subarray.
So this is like a classic
interview debacle,
where you are asked to find
the maximum array within an array.
So an array can look something like this.
3, -4, 1, 2, -1, 5, -7.
The maximum subarray is very obvious,
1, 2, -1, 5.
Add all those numbers together,
that is your largest contiguous subarray.
Now a naive solution would
to do something like this,
sum, sum, sum, sum, sum, sum,
sum, sum, step forward once, sum.
Now we're on the -4.
Then we go all the way again.
Right, we're gonna do
that every single time,
just trying to find the maximum subarray.
Computing the same value though many, many
times throughout this over and over and
over again.
We are gonna do an n squared walk here and
we're gonna do that n times.
So it's an n cubed algorithm,
which is just like that's just
not what you want in your life.
This is almost always
a bad plan to do n cubed.
Unless if you're multiplying matrices.
Then you need a degree in physics, and
then you can somehow get it to be less and
there's like crazy optimizations and
somehow everything works out and
it's fast.
All right, so how do we do this?
Well, let's think about
it in a different way.
At this point,
we know the maximum value, right?
So we start out at 1.
One the maximum value no matter what.
If you have an array of one, the maximum
value is just that first element.
So right now we have a max value of 3.
We also have a current sum of 3, right?
All right, let's walk forward once.
Is our current sum negative?
No, therefore,
let's add this number to it.
So current sum becomes -1.
Is -1 bigger than our maximum value.
No, therefore,
our maximum value remains as 3.
We go here.
Is our current sum negative?
Yes it is.
We found a spot where the maximum value
goes below 0, therefore it just can't be.
We're in a bad spot,
we just ignore it, right?
And so therefore we're gonna reset
current sum to the current node.
It's not 1.
Is one less than the maximum value?
Or sorry,
is 1 greater than the maximum value?
No!
Leave it alone.
All right, go to 2.
Is current value or
current sum less than 0?
Is it negative?
No, therefore,
add that number to our current sum.
All right,
is this larger than our maximum value?
No, therefore, we move forward.
Is our current sound less than 0?
No, it's not add that to it.1 is
it greater than our maximum value?
No, therefore move forward.
Is this less than 0?
No, it's not therefore add it.
We are at 6.
Is this greater than or
less than our current maximum value?
It's greater than.
Update your maximum value.
Now we go forward.
That's right here.
Is this thing less than 0?
No, it's not.
Now it's a -1 cuz we added it to it.
Is this greater than or
less than our maximum value?
No, it's not our maximum
sub array is a value of 6.
If we just do it with our eyes,
that's 1 + 2 + -1 + 5 or
simply 4, that is a 3,
3+4, that's 7, we got it.
All right, fantastic, wait.
>> [LAUGH] You-
>> Did I do terrible?
I did do terrible math.
I went 1 to 2, didn't die,
and then I went back to 1.
Okay, it should be a 3.
Okay, no one's, and
I said quick math today.
Okay, my quick math's
not that great today.
Okay, quick math.
You get the idea though.
That is how we are using previous
values to compute forward values.
We're taking it and
we're walking across this and doing it.
Now if this doesn't make it clear,
we have one more problem that should make
it really clear how to think about these.
Now, how you think about these and
how you come up with dynamic
solutions is incredibly difficult.
Anyone that's just like,
dynamic programming is easy.
I'm like, no, it's not, and
you're being jerk because it's not easy.
It's crazy.
It's like I only know how to solve dynamic
problems because I know how to solve those
problems already.
It's very hard to see a new one and
just be able to do it really quickly.